
# Creative Deal Analysis Project

## Installation Guide

Follow these steps to install the Creative Deal Analysis project:

0. Clone this project using the following command:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:hafizsiddiq7675/de-calculator.git

1. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd de-calculator
   
2. Run the following command to install project dependencies:
   ```bash
   composer update --ignore-platform-reqs

3. Copy the provided `env.example` file to `.env` and set the required credentials:
   Email credentials
   Vonage Credentials
   Google API Credentials

5. Set the database name in the `.env` file.

6. Generate an application key by running the following command:
   ```bash
   php artisan key:generate

7. Run the database migrations and seed the database:
   ```bash
   php artisan migrate --seed
   
8. Start the Laravel development server:
   ```bash
   php artisan serve
   
9. Access the project on http://localhost:8000 in your web browser.

# Coding Structure Guide

## Custom Auto load Files

- Custom auto-load files are registered in `composer.json`. The list includes:
  - Helper.php: Registers methods for public use throughout the project, e.g., `uploadFile()`, `getSlashesAboutOS()`, etc.
  - Amortization.php: Contains methods related to the Amortization subject, used for solving problems quickly in areas utilizing Amortization formulas.
  - Constants.php: Stores constants used in the project, registered and autoloaded by the Composer autoload command.
  - Response.php: Includes methods related to API responses, such as error or success responses with or without data.

## DecFormulas Library

- The DecFormulas library contains PHP conversions of Excel formulas found in Creative Deal Analysis Excel sheets. It allows easy modification of formulas, and the Offer Trait uses this library to calculate values during the creation of an Offer in different steps.

## Laravel DomPDF External Library

- This library is used when creating and finalizing an Offer. Users can send the Offer by adding the seller's email and phone number and selecting the desired amortization schedule. In the offer-sending flow, the Offer PDF is generated by the Laravel DomPdf library and then saved into the project's public folder. This PDF is attached as an email attachment to the seller.

## SignaturePad Frontend Library

- When a seller receives the Offer email with a PDF attachment, they can review the offer and sign or reject it. The SignaturePad frontend library captures the required signature. After signing, the signature is saved in the `offers` table in the database and appended as an image in the PDF on the last signature line.

## web.php Guide

- The `web.php` file handles all routes for the project. Key controllers and their associated routes include:
  - **AuthController:** Handles login, logout, verify email view, and verify email post requests.
  - **RegisterController:** Manages registration view, register post request, and verify email verification link.
  - **ForgetController:** Responsible for forget password, forget password email, reset password view, and reset password post request.
  - **ProfileController:** Deals with user profile page, update profile, and update password.
  - **OfferController:** Manages various aspects of offers, including past offers, sent offers, signed offers, rejected offers, send offer, download offer, calculate offer, calculation list, amortization listing for original, gap funding, seller carry, and owner finance. It also handles calculations for property address, entry assumptions, amounts, monthly payments, interest to equity, loan months for seller carry, purchase to requirement, remaining to interest, and other related routes.
  - **GlobalVariableController:** Handles routes related to global variables.
  - **SettingController:** Manages CMS handling, handling all routes related to settings.

